We have multiple products because uh
Mocha it's not anymore just uh an app. I
now call it an ecosystem because it's a
bunch of apps and solutions, websites
that work together and seamlessly one
with another. I I just always call it
like the the I want to be the apple of
crypto. Like everything just works so
perfectly together that you won't want
to leave the ecosystem.
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoay.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Zamr Montes,
the CEO and founder of Mocha, an
ecosystem comprised of a wallet, point
of sale, and messenger solutions.
In this conversation, we discussed the
problems of onboarding into crypto, the
recent ETH Mexico conference, how Mocha
plans to become the Apple of crypto,
onboarding brickandmortar businesses
into the Mocha ecosystem, Mocha's plans
for a lifetime referral network, and so
much more. Just a reminder, nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens and that the guest or
host might hold tokens discussed in any
given episode. You can check out a
disclaimer at www.newstoday.com.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
please consider rating and reviewing on
your favorite podcasting platform and
sharing with your friends and family.
Every rate, review, like, and comment
really does help us reach more people
and bring you more of your favorite
guests. I really enjoyed this
conversation with Z, and I hope you
enjoy it, too. What's up, everybody?
Welcome to the Smart Economy podcast.
Super excited today to be joined by
Zamir Montes, the CEO and founder of
Mocha. Z, how are we doing today?
>> Uh, just recovering from a little bit of
flu, but I'm great. I'm glad to be here
and I'm glad that I got rid of the of
the flu before today because I really
wanted to be here. So, thanks for
inviting me.
>> Yeah, man. Um, super happy you were able
to heal up and and get ready for this.
Um, we've been we've known each other
now for going on two years. First met at
in Vegas at um what was it? Rare Evo.
>> Rare Evo was it? Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, um
>> that was two years ago.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What
>> what were you doing in in Vegas at Rare
Evo then? Because I remember we went out
to get tacos and like you
>> we had a booth. We had a booth at Rare
Evo.
>> You were in the um the Thor chain and
and Maya chain section. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because at the moment
uh we will talk more about that but at
the moment Mocha was only an amazing
idea and it was just a proof of concept
of a wallet a decentralized wallet with
Maya and Thor chain as the swap
providers basically. So that was it that
that was everything that we had and we
had a a working demo of the point of
sale but it wasn't like fully there. It
was just kind of like a proof of concept
thing. Uh, and that's what we were
showing there at the at the event.
>> Yeah. I remember we had dinner and we
were talking about the point of sale and
I myself for I've had this long-term
dream here in Denver to be able to go to
a brewery or to an ice cream shop or
something and be able to like buy food
with crypto. Not necessarily using like
uh like Bitcoin specifically or anything
like that. It's just always been like a
dream and part of that dream was to have
a POS, like something installed in the
local store. So, when we were chatting
at Rare Evo, like that was what perked
my ear up about what you were working
on. And so, it's super cool to a finally
have you on the pod. Um, and b to see
how far Mocha has come since that
initial conversation. But
>> before we dive down the Mocha rabbit
hole,
>> um, I just want to get like the basics
out of the way. So, everybody has an
origin story.
>> When was the first time you heard about
Bitcoin or Ethereum? And like, were you
like me and everyone else where you just
kind of looked past it and then came
back later?
>> Uh, yeah, kind of. Because I'm from 95.
I was born in 95. So, I was I don't
remember if I was in middle school or in
high school when like Bitcoin got to my
I think it was high school. uh when one
of my friends my best friend actually uh
he how I don't know but he heard about
Bitcoin so he was like there's this
thing that it's a coin and it's a
digital coin like I had no idea what was
it like I up until like few years ago
still was like I don't know what it is
it's just something magic there in in
somewhere in space but at the moment it
was crazy Like actually I think he
understood what it was and I I couldn't
like I I just trust him because he was
like super techy and he was always
listening to all these uh news about
tech and he heard about Bitcoin and he
was like let's buy some Bitcoin and it
was cheap at the moment. So it was like,
"Yeah, let let's put like we're in
Mexico, so it was like, let's put a,000
Mexican pesos." That is like 50 bucks,
something like that. And we're going to
do it. But at the moment, we didn't have
like a bank account, like a regular bank
account.
Around those days, there was this uh I
don't know if you know this, but it's
there's like this 711 store here in
Mexico kind of that it's called Oxo and
it's everywhere. and they came up with
this like debit card. So, we got one of
those so that we could buy online, but
that card was not supposed to work
online on most of the uh of their
e-commerce. So, it was weird. And we
were never able to purchase Bitcoin. We
tried like for a a month or something
like that. And we're not going to go and
ask our mom like, "Hey, can can you help
us buy this thing?" And especially it
put like a thousand Mexican pesos. At
the time we were young. So it's like if
I try to like ask my mom for it or my
dad and try to explain them why and
where I'm putting this money, they would
just say, "No, you're crazy." I I think
they would today.
Uh but
at the moment that that's how I came to
to Bitcoin. We tried, we stopped trying
and then years later we saw it and and
we remember that those days like two
years ago or three years ago and we're
like dude you remember when we were
trying to buy Bitcoin like right now
that that will be a lot but I don't feel
bad of not like of not being able to buy
it because I think with the zero
knowledge I had about crypto at the
moment I might have lost my my access to
the wallet and I will just have nothing.
So, yeah.
>> Yeah. I think that there's some seeds uh
that are going to be sprinkled in
throughout our conversation of of why
you're building Mocha that that might
kind of tie into your initial friction
when it came to Bitcoin. But, um All
right. So, let's fast forward a little
bit then. You you stumbled on Bitcoin in
high school. You tried to buy it, you
couldn't, and then you just like forgot
about it. So what what happened then?
What did you what like field were you
working in after you left college? Were
you working in tech? Um and how did how
did your field how did your work in tech
kind of bring you back to working in
blockchain?
>> Yeah. Um during my university years I
was working uh in tech but it was most
mostly like electrical engineering like
nothing software related but still it
was engineering so that worked nothing
related to anything mocha or nothing
related to crypto. Then when I
graduated, I started working on software
like just web two regular software
and I started to realize that
there's people that knows a lot about
the software and how to like do good
software. But sometimes like the good
developer, the the the best developers,
they have no idea about the user
experience. like you have to have
someone that is really good with user
experience and doing good QA of the
products and that's what I started
realizing when I was managing uh more
projects and more people uh on web two
things. Um, also
even in web 2, there's a lot of things
that people assume that they will just
work and be like magic. Like that's how
it works and that should work and they
don't think of what's behind it, you
know? Like I I had to talk to the the
client sometimes it was like a big
company and they were wanting this
solution that they can't uh see in their
minds like they can envision but they
don't know how how to do it. So they
hire us and it for them was like I just
want to click this button and then
everything happens by magic and that's
what they wanted and then the AI came
into realization into the the the world
of development and now people think that
it's as simple as asking like GPT hey
can you do a website that does this and
just hit a button and it works and I I
think AI has hurt a little bit the
development process because people think
that it's so simple. It's not. But that
those are the things that I learned from
my years in web tool. Like if you want
to do a good product, you have to know
both things. You have to know the the
tech stock that you that you're using,
but you also have to know what the user
is trying to do and how they're trying
to do it. So UX is really important. and
QA is super important and like listening
to the clients or the users it's super
important to how I work in product. So
those are the things that I kind of got
from web two and keep them and that's my
moto like this has to be simple enough
that my mom can use it or that depending
what I'm building but like if it's not
understandable just by looking at the
product looking at the screen and you
don't know what's happening it's not a
good product. So, so that that's what I
I took from my web two years and
yeah, it was I I was there for like
three years. So, so I I think we that
worked a lot cuz I started just
developing myself and then at the end I
ended up with like 15 developers under
me like and and a lot of different
products and a lot of different clients
like just asking for crazy things that
some were possible some were not or not
at least with the current tech. Yeah.
So, so how how can you translate the
idea of the client to actual product?
That's something that I got really good
at, I think.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not just with
developers and clients in this kind of
vertical alone, there's always kind of a
gap between the technical and the
non-technical. And even when we go and
talk about like marketing purposes, a
client can always say, I want this type
of marketing narrative, but they can't
really like give specifics on how they
want the campaign to look, how they want
the image to look. And so there's always
this disconnect and this strange dance
that needs to be done between the two
different parties that are coming
together to create something. So I agree
with everything that you just said.
Having the experience of being on both
the technical and the non-technical side
acts as a bridge to really create what
the client's looking for, but also in
give directive in a way that the
technical team is able to build in that
manner. So I can't wait to to delve
further into that. But before we do, the
last time we saw each other in person
wasn't Rare Evo in Vegas. I saw you in
Mter and Eth Mexico and so and Mocha was
also a sponsor of the Assad which was
delicious. Um so I went down to E Mexico
for two reasons. A first I was getting a
little disheartened by what I was seeing
in blockchain and crypto having gone to
like large name brand conferences and
just seeing businesses shill their
products and talking to BD guys and not
necessarily talking to the community
connecting with folks who need
blockchain who need crypto. So, a that
was one of the reasons why I went to
East Mexico and B I wanted to get a
finger on the pulse for what's happening
with crypto in LAM and where does
blockchain fit? What are what are like
the roles that this brings to this
region of the world to a people who very
much need it. But before we talk about
those things, what was your perspective
of ET Mexico? Like I loved it. I loved
visiting Montter. I'm excited to go
here. Uh, I want to be there next year
also and and I think it's it's a great
event. Like you can see the effort that
they putting into like bringing nice
people, nice speakers. Um, I was talking
to Mexi about it and I was just giving
them some feedback. I'm like I think
you're missing like a huge name just
that will be like the the difference in
this this year and next year like
exploding like if you can bring one of
the crypto big name guys you you you're
set cuz the other part they they already
know how to do it pretty well like the
event was amazing like everything was
well done even though it's not like a
super huge uh uh event like
it works like any other uh expo all
related to crypto like they have that
part already figured out and even the
the the people that was talking and like
giving some some conferences or anything
like they were good like the topics were
good. I just think that they were
missing this big name that they can just
post everywhere online like and like
bring people more people or more uh
protocols or even more sponsors for them
will be great. I I guess like that was
my my main feedback. But yeah, I'm
excited for next year. I think they're
going to do a a way better job and and I
can wait.
>> Um I'm curious because if you go I've
last year I went to 10 different
countries mostly for for work and every
time you go to a blockchain conference
and no matter what part of the world
it's in the presentations are given in
English. So what was like what was the
the value ad of being able to go to ETH
Mexico and to watch presentations in
Spanish? Like what do you think that
that does for building like a regional
community and what how do you think that
that like empowers a group of people to
be able to speak in their native tongue
and convey concepts more easily using
the language that they're most familiar
with?
Um I think I don't remember. I really
don't remember but I think my conference
was in English though because most of
the speakers was were were native
English speakers but they I heard some
of them in Spanish and I think what we
need to like
uh coming to realization is that there's
different type of people that attends
these events.
In this case, I realized that there was
a lot of students coming to the event
and that's great because that's the
people that in the future they will
either use the products or develop new
products. So that's great like starting
to bring younger people into the crypto
ecosystem and let them know that all of
this is happening and it's not just this
big app like that they know because
that's the one that it's more popular
but there's like all these other things
that you can do like smart contracts and
you can do like uh DeFi solutions and
you can have decentralization on all
these other topics and that's opens like
that that opens to you a lot of ideas
like maybe you working in something
noncrypto, but you can start thinking
how can I how can I implement this into
whatever I'm doing. So I think that's
really important to see like stu
students young people young students
going to the events for them I think
being able to hear everything in your
native language. It's super important
because especially with these topics
like the terms are so complicated that
if you don't know what they're talking
about and now you're you have to
translate it in your mind because like
you're listening to another language
translate and then like kind of see what
like get what what they're talking
about. It's hard like that. I can see
how that can be overwhelming for
somebody that especially if like they're
not so fluent in English. That can be
really overwhelming. Mhm.
>> So for them it's great. For the builders
I think there's not a big issue because
like everything software related most of
the time is in English and like you and
me like I I'm from Mexico but I have to
speak English because like everybody
that I talk uh about crypto with their
native English speakers or even the ones
that are not like there's this uh
agreement like of let's speak in
English. Like that's how it works. like
that's like everything is English even
the docs like you go to any uh protocol
docs and like all the technical
documentation is in English like all the
websites in English and so
>> yeah I think for for the technical
people I don't think it's like an issue
but if you want to bring more people
into crypto I think it's really
important to have uh the native language
uh available and present and and be the
main language of the event especially if
you want to call Eithmatico. Well, you
should be speaking in Spanish and like
putting most of the things in in in
Spanish. Yeah, I do want to note that
I've probably been to at this point in
my crypto career, I've probably been to
maybe 40 different conferences and I
heard one of the best questions that
I've ever heard at ETH Mexico and it was
from somebody in the audience and it was
an older woman um maybe in her late 50s,
early 60s and she asked why is it so
difficult to teach the older generations
about blockchain and crypto? Why can't
we use words that are more understanding
for them? And I just thought that that
was a fantastic question and it's
something that we always forget when
we're building. We always think about
the devs that we're working with or the
cutting edge new new age users who are
35 and younger, but there's still a
whole world out there of somewhat
technologically savvy individuals, folks
with money, older people,
>> and they feel like they're not being
connected to this industry and to this
asset class. And I just thought that
that was a fantastic question.
>> Yeah. So
>> they feel excluded totally like they
they they feel that they are being left
behind.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's not that's not good like even
if it's not like for uh business uh
purposes it's not good because like you
don't want to isolate technology from
from any anyone like technology was like
the main purpose of technology is to
improve lives. That's that's what I
think that's my personal definition of
the purpose of of technology. So if you
are like uh picking who can access the
technology then it's not fulfilling its
full potential.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh that that's why all these new tech
like even AI or even internet when it
started it didn't stay in the
universities. It went out to the world
because that's how you improve the world
in life. And I I don't know if if
somebody asked a question about that in
my panel in Mexico, but I was basically
talking about that and I was answering
that and that's something that I'm
pushing so hard. I I was just like 30
minutes ago I was just talking with my
UX girl that she's amazing. Shout out to
Hemet. and we were designing some new
features that we're doing and on the
designs she had transaction hash and I
was like no please write down uh uh
transaction ID slash transaction hash
like the main thing will be ID because
if I see that I know that it's an ID of
the transaction the hash a lot of people
won't know what it is but the ones that
know will see it and they will know what
to do
>> totally like the the ones that know what
it is, they they won't even read it.
They will just do whatever they have to
do. So those small things, those small
uh wording uh can can actually make the
difference. The the example that I also
gave on the on my panel was uh address
the address in crypto like everybody
knows what it is. But if I tell my mom,
"Give me your address." She will say
like her actual address of her house,
you know, and she won't get it. I'm
like, "Give me your Bitcoin address."
And she will be like, "I don't know what
you're talking about."
>> But if we start calling it like account
number, that makes sense because they
are used to that term. So that's
something that we're kind of working
into like kind of translating into
actual terms that they already are used
to using.
And it makes sense. For example,
something totally different, but it's
not related, but it kind of does. The
save logo in Word and everything, it's
uh floppy disc. Nobody uses floppy disc
anymore.
>> But they know that that means save. Like
if you see that
>> like it's not the meaning that it had
before because before it was actually
saving it on a floppy disc at the
beginning. Now it's just saving your
computer even in the in the cloud. But
you're not gonna create a new logo or a
new term like upload and save for cloud.
You will just make people confused.
>> Then just keep using safe with the uh
floppies. It's the same thing like I
know it's not an account number. I know
it's not a transaction ID, but it makes
sense because they already know that
term. And basically looking at from an
abstract position, it's the same thing.
It's an identifier that I use to find my
transaction in the chain. So, it can be
a transaction ID. So, it's not a number.
I know it has letters in it. Let's say
that it's hexadimal. Now, it's a number.
You know, if you're like super
technical, you can make it work. That's
your account number, but it's not an
account. It's a it's a private key that
comes from derivating uh blah blah blah
blah and HD pass. You're I'm not going
to explain that to my users. Like, it's
an account. Yeah, you have an account.
They don't even know what's a wallet.
For them, an account, it's more
relatable than actually a wallet because
their bank account
>> makes more sense. So, this is your
crypto account. Okay, I get it. So, this
is my account and this is my account
number. Get it?
>> So, so that's the the mindset that I
have and how I'm trying to explain this
to the people.
>> Totally. So, when you launch the
product, are you going to be focusing on
the the Mexico region first or are you
going to have kind of a a global
um approach to the launch?
>> We have multiple products cuz uh Mocha,
it's not anymore just an app. I now call
it an ecosystem because it's a bunch of
apps and solutions, websites that work
together and seamlessly one with
another. I I just always call it like
the the I want to be the apple of
crypto. Like everything just works so
perfectly together that you won't want
to leave the ecosystem.
Um
and the the this depends on which app or
which product cuz all of the products
are going to be available on the web
version. So you can just go to a website
and use the products even the wallet
even the point of sale. So even if you
don't want to download or if your Apple
or Play Store uh country version doesn't
allow you to download because we are
always struggling with Apple and Play
Store like compliance all that. Um we
are not available in all the countries
on the stores because of that compliance
that we're currently working on. uh we
are working on adding new countries but
it's available on web said this
um we have some small hubs that we are
going to approach first like a small
beta testing of the products and the
solutions. We already we are already in
contact with people from different
countries. Uh and especially like
cities that are big enough but maybe
it's not the capital of a city of the
country but there's like big enough
cities that you can find like all type
of businesses and we have people that we
are going to leverage them so that they
can help us put for example bring
businesses into the point of sale and
also we are going to do a lot of
marketing efforts of the wallet and also
the messenger that we can talk more
about Um, so that we can put like more
digital presence of those products on on
those hubs of on those places so that
you find a you go to a place and you see
like you know those signs that said
Visar Mastercard here, you will see one
that says crypto allow and the mocha
logo and then you start going to YouTube
or you start going to your websites and
you start seeing the same logo. We're
kind of trying to have this strategy of
putting the logo and the name of Mocha
everywhere in that spec like pinpointed
city so that you can see it everywhere.
And now it it looks uh relatable and
legit because that's important because
people need to trust what what we're
building. Um, and we we want to give
them that that like that feeling of of
like, oh, it's it's big. Like, you know,
when you see a brand that it's
everywhere, you think like it's a huge
brand because it's everywhere. So, I
don't know who they are and I don't know
where they came from, but they're just
big because I see it everywhere. So,
that's kind of what we're going to do on
the first on the first batch of places
that we're going to go and test.
>> Yeah. We had this conversation in
Montter. It was kind of like a chicken
or the egg situation. Like do you build
the thing that everybody uses first or
do you kind of like build the narrative
of the thing and then people come and
use it? And I appreciated the approach
that you described to me, which is
basically what you just said, where
you're going in and you're planting
seeds into big enough areas where people
will be able to use the app and they'll
be able to use uh the app for payments
and they'll be able to use crypto for
payments. Um, one of the the kind of
things that's always stuck out to me,
and we've had issues with this here in
Denver by we we partnered with local
breweries to make it easy to redeem
beer. Um, using a a POS system that we
gave them, the the the brewery we
partnered with, their bartenders
couldn't even use the the simple tablet
that we gave them to scan a QR code on
people's phones. So we saw that there
was just like a stupid high barrier for
something that seemed so simple. So
what's kind of your approach with
introducing the POS to to merchants? A
lot of merchants, particularly mom and
pops, retail store merchants, not all of
them are young 20some, 30omes that are
super tech-savvy. Maybe they're using a
POSOS system that's 25, 35 years old and
they're not so easily adaptable to
change. What are your what are you
envisioning to kind of break down that
barrier and make it easy for the Mocha
POS to be usable in these stores?
>> Yeah. Um there's also like we're are
trying to
approach different type of uh public
depending on the product and the stage
that we are working on. For example, for
the wallet, we're going to start with
like the people that already know crypto
because the the current version of the
wallet, it works really well, but it's
not the easy wallet that I am that I
have in my mind, you know, like we are
still working on some missing links that
will make it super easy for some someone
that doesn't know. So, for that for the
wallet, it's going to be focused on the
people that it's techsavvy and kind of
knows the wallet, the crypto for now.
But for example for the point of sale
there's a lot of market like we can even
start with the people that are young and
have like businesses and that's a lot
like we won't be able to actually give
all the attention but we will want to
just that uh market if we want to but it
that's not the the end goal. So we are
working on making this as seamless and
as easy as possible.
Um so for example for the point of sale
we make the the interface the UI to look
as similar as possible as the ones that
they already have for the bank for the
credit card. So if you are store and you
are you already charging people with a
credit card you already know how to use
that one
>> just by looking at the point of sale app
you will know what to do because it's
basically the same thing just with the
mocha colors you know. So just by
looking at that uh you can kind of get
the idea of what you're doing even if
there's nobody telling you how to do it.
And I think I gave it to you and I let
you test it. I know you're more
techsavvy than a lot of the people out
there. But I was doing that test all
over the event and I was like giving
away like my well not giving away but
lending my phone and letting them test
the point of sale. I was saying this is
a point of sale app. That's it. like
that. Charge me like charge me 15 bucks
and they were just like looking at it.
They take like five seconds just to like
look at what they're try to understand
what they're looking at. They look at me
click on something like asking with the
with the eyes am I doing it right? But I
wasn't answering and saying anything. I
was just looking at them hesitate but
actually doing it. So that was really
great to see because they were
hesitating but they were doing it
correctly. So they will will charge me
and then the QR code appears and they're
like even though I I wasn't actually
paying at the moment um they were just
their natural instinct was to show me
the QR code was like am I done? Like is
this correct? And I'm like yeah that's
what you're supposed to do. you're
supposed to show it to the guy that's
going to pay or the girl that's going to
pay. So, but you did it perfectly. So, I
actually tested and it worked and I
tested with people young and and older
people and everybody that I tested it
with were able to actually charge me the
amount that they were supposed to. So,
that was great. I I want to interject
for a second because if somebody is
listening to this and is maybe from like
a wester like the United States or
Europe or Australia, the systems that
they're used to paying for things are
like taking out your credit card and tap
scanning um like uh a puck or actually
giving your credit card to somebody or
using your phone to tap scan and pay.
But when you go to like Mexico or to
Argentina or to Brazil, the population
actually uses like a mobile payment
service for doing payments. So there's
already this hurdle that a lot of folks
in Europe and America might not quite
understand when it comes to mobile
payments. So, can you just like take a
quick little second to describe how I
might be able to go to like a street
vendor, a grandma who is a street vendor
who has a bank account, and just
describe the system in Mexico about how
I can pay for something using my phone
and how she intuitively already knows
how to accept payment because of the way
that the payment system works.
um right now that your question has two
things that are important to mention.
The first one is this is what I'm
explaining is for the business owner or
the actual uh employee that it's on the
store. That's what I'm explaining right
now. The other side is the person that
it's paying
>> for them. they already have to know
what's a wallet and they already have to
have a wallet and being enable because
if not like it's hard to explain them
what's a wallet and they need to do this
and buy some crypto and then blah blah
blah all these parts assuming in this
stage assuming that the the user
um they already know what they're doing
and they have a wallet the one that they
doesn't matter doesn't matter which one
they are using doesn't have to be the
mocha wallet they just have a wallet and
they have balance in their wallet in
Ethereum or Bitcoin or any other one of
the main uh coins that are out there.
Let's assume that that case. So the
horror can be for the business owner or
the employee that is trying to to charge
someone.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh I don't know if you can see it right
there, but this is a test that I have
right here in my phone. So this is the
lock screen. So if you have a tablet
because there's a lot of restaurants or
businesses that the tablet it's like
>> accessible for for people just going
around. So you will want to have it
locked. So we have a lock screen.
>> And once you're unlocked, this is the
the app. This is how it looks. So you
can just put here the amount that you
want to charge somewhere. So if I want
to charge $15, that's there.
So, this is how much I'm going to charge
to you. And then I just hit continue
and it should generate a cure. That's
it. So, just put the amount, hit
continue. That's it. Show this to the
guy or the girl that it's going to pay.
They know what to do. That's it. That
That's the idea. And going back to the
other thing that you mentioned that in
in the western they don't they're not so
used to like these type of devices but
everybody knows everybody knows what to
do when they see a QR code.
They know that they need to open their
phone the camera and scan it. The
current version that I just showed you
this only works right now with the Mocha
app and the Mocha supporting apps.
there's other apps that support the Noka
protocol cuz it's on a specific uh QR
code. But now I'm going to talk of
something that it's coming and we're
testing and I think that's something
that you will like and it's all any
wallet. It's paid with any wallet.
>> And it's not only any wallet, it's
actually any phone
cuz the QR code that it's going to be
generated from here, this QR code, uh
it's going to be different. So, if you
scan the QR code, it will open a a
website for the business that you're
paying. It's a website that has the logo
of the business, the name of the
business, and it will show you how much
you need to pay, and it will ask you to
select the token that you want to pay
with.
So, you select the token and then it
will show you this is the address and
this is the amount of the token that you
need to send. That's it. You don't need
to do anything else. And we're also
going to have like some of the major um
uh wallets, some like quick button
actions. And if you have like the Mocha
wallet, you can just hit there and it
will open the Mocha wallet with that
specific information prefilled. So that
you can just sign it. So, even if you
don't know uh like how like what it is
like this device that they're charging
me with uh it's a phone, but if you
don't know what's happening, you see the
QR code, you scan it with your iPhone
camera, like the the actual iPhone
camera. You don't need to have an an
app. And it will open this site that
says uh uh I don't know, like just u
Mocha Cafe. This Mocha Cafe wants to
charge you 10 bucks. Please choose a
token. You choose it and that's it. pay
pay to this address this amount. Easy as
that. So that that simple. Like if you
know how to scan a QR code, you can do
it.
>> So let's say I have on my wallet um USDC
or Bitcoin or Ethereum and the Mocha
Cafe only accepts USDT.
>> Yeah.
>> Will will what will the process look
like on the back end if I don't have
USDT but I do have tokens? Will the
Mocha Cafe be able to accept my tokens
>> for for the user the the the vendor and
the actual user that's buying? They
don't know what's happening in the
background and they don't have to know.
That's that's why it has taken us so
long because there were actually missing
links on this equation to make it work.
like the tech wasn't there and there's
things that we actually develop uh from
scratch because there were missing some
like really tiny steps on making this
work so that you can pay with USDT and
the business will get USDC
because they want USDC. You can even pay
with Solana if you want and they will
get USDC or with XRP and they will get
USDC. Whatever you want to pay with, as
long as it's on the list of supported
tokens, you can pay with, we'll give you
an address and an amount, and then the
business will get their USDC. That's as
simple as it goes. And we will manually
uh have a listener in the background for
the transaction that you're sending
because we so we're listening to the
actual address. That's the beauty of
crypto. Since the address are public and
everybody can listen to what's happening
to an address, we already know where
where are you supposed to send the the
the assets. So in that moment when we
show it to you, we start listening to
that address. So you we don't even need
to know which address are you paying
from. I just need to know the amount and
where are you paying to. Once you pay,
we know that you pay. it's register in
not even in the actual chain but if as
long as it's in the mele of the chain we
know that you already send it. So
depending on the amount and depending on
the token in the chain, we have some
rules of trusty.
Uh if it's like five bucks,
well just by you sending this
transaction to the me pool, we trust it.
But if it's a I don't know like a a
million dollar transaction, we're not
going to trust. We're going to wait for
confirmations or we're going to let the
business owner like or real time it will
say processing like we got the
transaction but it's it's processing
like the bank for example but if it's
like a a really fast chain we can change
it to uh accepted like you got the money
all all that it's being handled in the
background by us and that's the hard
part like making that as seamless as
possible as just seeing the check mark
appear like hey green check mark you got
it All right, that's good.
>> What's the what are the processes on the
background that you're doing for these
token conversions? Are you leveraging um
like an L1 to L1 swapping protocol? Are
you leveraging a third party service?
>> We are using multiple things depending
on the token, the chains, the route and
everything that's happening. Um, we are
using also Thor chain and Maya and some
other things that I'm not allowed to
disclose right now, but you'll see when
when we do it. And what's happening is
that everything that we have to do and
that's why like this is possible with uh
with like these apps that are
centralized exchanges. Of course, you
can do this really easily, but
everything that we do is decentralized
or most of it is decentralized and
private and self-custody. So
that those that was the hard part like
do this in a decentralized way keeping
the self-custody and being compliant
with everything all over the world
that that starts to become hard to do
and and it's like juggling on uh you
always have to give something if you
want to have something you have to give
something else. Uh so right now we're
like juggling with this balance of how
can I make it as simple as possible and
as bulletproof or errorproof or user
proof but still being uh decentralized
and private and blah blah blah all these
things like it will be really easy if I
made my own smart contract and get let
them know like hey send everything to
this address and it's mine and I will
just do the the process for you because
you are dumb and you can make a mistake.
uh that's the way that it might feel you
know but that's not the case like people
is smart they just don't know how to do
things but that doesn't mean that they
are dumb you know once they know how to
do it they will keep on doing it
correctly the thing is make it a simple
as simple enough that they can do it the
first time correctly
and that's why I'm like select the token
first okay which one do you want to pay
with okay then I'm like this is the
address that you need to and there's a
disclaimer there that says make sure to
copy the exact address and verify it
before sending the transaction and there
this is the amount of token and then
there's a disclaimer that says copy the
exact amount and make sure that you
don't modify it blah blah blah like
making sure that you know what you're
doing and I know that people don't read
so most of the time they don't read the
disclaimers but still it's there big and
with like highlighted color and also
like the copy action is there like you
don't have to like manually select it
and copy it from the phone. It's like a
button that says copy because you can
left out one character. Something can go
wrong while you're copying. So we want
to like how bulletproof can this be but
still being private self custody and
decentralized. like I don't want to
connect like I don't want to ask
permission
>> for me to use your your wallet like I
don't want to ask like um give access to
this web page uh for like accessing your
account and signing transaction because
that's uh like even though there's a lot
of solutions out there that can make
that happen and can be really secure,
it's still open to somebody trying to
leverage that for malicious is intense,
you know. So, the less access that Mocha
has to your uh wallet, better for you
and better for us because that's less
responsibility for us, you know.
>> Yeah. So, let's talk about the wallet
creation process then and and onboarding
in general. When a new user onboards
into Mocha, um how is the wallet being
created? How are their keys being
stored? Um, and what happens if like I
lose access to the app? Will I be able
to get my assets on Mocha again?
>> Um, the thing is the the current wallet
right now, the one that I'm telling you,
this is focused on people that already
know what they're doing. Uh, that's like
a regular uh wallet um creation. You
have the key store, you can download it,
you get your money, you can save it, you
derivate the addresses, and that's it.
That's the current wallet situation. But
we now have another solution that it's
out there and the people that are
already that are using the messenger
that it's something that it's in alpha
but it's like an open alpha.
We have a new login method and again
we're giving something up like we're
giving up something to get something. We
with this new method, you can decide if
you want to trust yourself and only
yourself into keeping the recovery
backup. Like I'm an expert. I know what
I'm doing. I don't want Mocha to have
anything uh about my account. I will
keep my recovery backup. Great. That
good. That's better for us. But we have
this multi-party computation derivation
working that now you can allow us to
keep one of your shares encrypted with
your pin. So we don't even have access
to that recovery unless we have your pin
and some other things that are more
complicated to explain right now. But
even like we made sure that we cannot
know which of these recoveries in the
database everything is encrypted but we
don't know with which one of all these
list of givers is yours. You're the only
one that can like put like put in place
the the puzzle that it's the ID of the
row in the database of these givers that
it's your recovery account.
And even if even if somebody get access
to the to the database and they they
want to try to like brute force the pin,
they need more than the pin to just
decrypt the actual uh recovery, you
know. So we have a way of like if you're
a norm that we want to call them like
new users. Uh if you're somebody that
are not techsavvy and you don't know
nothing about crypto um and you don't
care about it like you might not be even
using crypto in the messenger you don't
care about recovery because you are not
going to have money there
by default we save that that uh for
those users we save the recovery
encrypted with all these things that I
just explained in a separate database
and whenever you lose it like you can
just do the processing your phone to
just recover your account. So that's
something that is working right there.
>> Yeah. So when we were in Montter, we
were also talking about the messenger
and where the data of the messages is
stored and you were talking about how
the information of the messages is
stored in a decentralized manner for two
purposes. um one to be decentralized but
two because it took
um responsibility away from Mocha. So
can you share more about the backend
data management?
>> That was that was uh what we're going to
that that's on on phase two of the
messenger right now on this because
right now what we're our main focus is
to actually build a messenger build a
good messenger. Uh I'm always just tell
telling people I will be really glad
that 95% of the people that uses the
messenger don't use any crypto features.
That will mean that the messenger is so
good that people is only using it
because it's so easy to use as a
messenger
and then they will eventually get into
the crypto part without knowing. Um but
right now we're focusing on building a
really really smooth good private super
private. We're using matrix in the
background that it's it's like a
protocol that it's there for messaging
that it's super complicated and super
secure and it's really hard to actually
have this experience of instant
decryption, you know, because uh one of
the things that we struggled with was
the the push notifications
>> because the message arrives to your
device encrypted and your device
decrypted. So, we know that we you got a
notification but we don't know what's in
it. So it was a whole process just to
trigger a background process in the app
to actually decrypt on your device the
notification and then change the content
of of the notification so that you can
actually see the message there. So those
are the kind of things that when you're
doing something as secure as as Mocha
Messenger that's why it's hard to do it
and to do it well and to do it fast.
>> We're taking our time. We're ensuring
that everything is secure, that it's
private, and that it's good to use. But
then people are used to something that
it's not as secure, and that it's so
instant because that some of them are
not even encrypted. So you're used to
like, oh, I send a message, and it just
send, and the other people got it like
instantly. Getting to that point with
all these security measures, it's hard.
We're getting there. Like we're really
close. And we have these features that
are like so similar to what you have
there or even better that what what you
already have there and they work
encrypted and all these plots that we're
talking about
and that's what we're working right now.
We already have in the scope to actually
go to a decentralized uh database for
all the messages. Uh that's something
that it's going to happen eventually,
but that's going to happen once we have
volume users and also once we have uh
funding for the project because the
messenger is going to work also with the
point of sale and the wallet and
business because you're going to be able
to pay on the point of sale through the
messenger just like scanning a QR code
through the messenger. you're gonna be
able to pay a cussy or you can send
money to somebody else through the chat
interface, something like what WeChat
does in in China, but the centralized
self-custody secure encrypted chat and
encrypto features. So, so that's the end
goal eventually of this.
>> Awesome. So, we're kind of nearing the
the end of our hour and we've talked
about um Messenger, we've talked about
POS, and we've talked about wallet. One
of the things that I'm really excited to
learn a little bit more about and as the
Mocha ecosystem grows and really becomes
the apple of crypto, um there's a
revenue component RWE that is added into
Mocha. So what is the vision for
revenue? How will people be able to
partake in earning revenue? And what
will that look like when everything is
built out and scoped out to your vision?
>> Um um I'm always being of the mindset of
if somebody helps you on the beginning,
you should help them when you're big.
That's something that I've always had in
my mind. like you have to be grateful to
people that was there in the beginning.
And I think all these uh like new banks
and apps that they just come to a new
country or a new city and they kind of
are giving away money just to get users
and they're like, "Yeah, refer us to
your friends and then we'll give you
money and whatever." Most of them are a
one-time uh fee and they have like this
bunch of things like you have to like he
has to put 10,000 dollars and do this
amount of transactions and then you are
eligible to redeem. Like it's like a
scam kind of of redeeming your referral
money. That that's how it works. But
it's so flashy like you will get a
thousand bucks just to refer someone.
That's what they do. But that's just for
a small period of time. They get the
users and then they forget about them.
We don't want to go that route. We're
actually putting out a referral system
that it's a lifetime referral revenue.
Yeah. Lifetime. And that's not going to
change. And that's something that I it's
carved in stone for me. And that's like
I've heard people uh in the team that
they're like what if later on once we
are like super big we can like uh get
rid of this or like instead of giving
this amount giving less uh with the time
like no if you are if you were in the
beginning and you are getting uh like 20
beeps of the transactions
through referrals you'll get the 20 bs
until the end of time and the end of
Mocha eventually. actually never because
Mocha will be here forever. I hope so.
You'll get that that that amount
forever. That that's something that I'm
really really critical about and I want
to make sure and and I feel confident
like being sharing this like it's going
to be forever. Like if you already earn
it, it will be forever.
Um how it's going to work. You get your
wallet or your messenger or your
business whatever you think you got. You
you there's a there's an a space in the
app. There's a session in the app that
you can go there and generate a referral
code. You create your referral code and
you can share that with somebody else.
They install the app and they uh copy
your referral code there. And then from
that moment that per that that user we
don't know who is it but we just know
that this address of this this crypto
address it's related to you permanently.
What this means is that every revenue
that Mocha gets from that user will
always give you a small share of that
revenue to you.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh so that's how it's going to work. So
that also works with businesses. So if
you on board a business and the business
registers and uses your referral code
when they create the business, every
transaction that goes through Mocha to
that business that generates revenue
will give you a small revenue.
So if you manage to on board uh a big
franchise like Starbucks or I don't know
Cars Jr.
and you were the one that brings them
and they use your referral code to
actually create the business on Mocha.
Well, that means that you will get for
life a small portion of all the revenue
that Mocha gets from all the
transactions that go through that
business to Mocha paid. That that's it.
Like that's as simple as on boarding
someone, on boarding a business, and
whenever they generate revenue for
Mocha, you will get revenue too. Lif.
>> I Yeah, I love that inherent flywheel
for creating a
decentralized swarm of BD folks,
business development folks. um basically
people who will go out there espousing
the merits of Mocha and trying to
onboard businesses or um large
franchises
simply for the fact that if they do the
onboarding then there is this mechanism
that's baked in so that they can in
perpetuity uh receive a person portion
of referral fees. I think that's a super
interesting mechanism. Um, as we wrap up
and zoom out, what are kind of like the
next steps for Mocha? You've mentioned
that the messenger is in alpha. Um,
there's some beta
playgrounds where we're going to see the
POS really start to take off and launch.
Um, the wallet is you're still
fine-tuning the UI with the wallet. So
what are the next steps and at what
point do you want to start onboarding a
little bit more beta testers and a
little bit more alpha testers?
>> Yeah. Um we are aiming for uh half a
half of this year somewhere around June
July we are going to push hard on on
boarding people into the products
especially the point of sale and the
wallet. Uh the wallet right now it's in
a stage that is really usable.
It's it's really friendly for people
that already know a little bit about
crypto. It's not the ideal wallet for
normies or or new people, but it's
really usable for people that already
know what they're doing. Uh that's going
to be out there. You I I invite
everybody to download it uh or use the
web version. Wallet.mmoka.app.
It's going to be there and mocha.app.
It's our landing page with all the
information of the products. So, that's
going to be there and you're going to be
able to actually pay with the Mocha
wallet to the to the point of sale
businesses or the e-commerce businesses.
That's something that's going to be
there and we need to have that working
by June. Uh that including what I'm not
able to show you right now, but it the
pay with any wallet
that should be there for the businesses
and the and the e-commerce also there
available. That's what I just explained
of the QR code and opening all these
process of showing you the address and
the amount that you need to pay. That's
going to be there and that's what we're
going to push for the second half of the
year. We're just going to push the
business section and the wallet section.
>> In the meantime, we're going to start
looking around the same uh time frame.
We're going to look for people that will
want to just help us test the messenger.
And the messenger is going to be out
there working for the people that want
to be better beta testers and we'll
receive a lot of feedback and we are
going to start integrating the payment
features in the messenger. So the
messenger will be available around June
good enough or well enough that you can
use it as a messenger but no payment
features yet.
Then uh I hope that by the end of the
year we're going to have the public
version of the messenger with the
payment solutions and that will just go
and instantly work with the point of
sale so that now you can send money
through the messenger and will work with
the point of sale and we have a we
haven't talked about that but we have a
an explorer that it's a multi-chain
explorer that you can check all the
transactions and it's already there so
you can check it out And that's like all
the products have a link for the
transaction and see the details and it
will just open the the mocha explainer
and you will see the the transaction
info in the chain. So that's that's the
idea. Uh and once we have the pay with
any wallet, we are going to start uh a
racing uh of money round just showing
them how it works because I I know that
there's been like a bunch of projects
out there that are just an idea and
they've raised a lot of money but I
think they kind of burned the angel
investors because they got tired of just
investing in ideas that eventually never
came to fruition. So that's why I just
want to give them the phone and say like
pay me, scan this QR code and pay me and
then they will test it and it will work
and they will receive they will see that
I got the money in my account and
instantly and like it's just working as
it's supposed to and then I send the the
receipt or the messenger and they it
works. So, I just want to come to all
these people that will really like to
invest in Mocha with the products
already working so that they can trust
us and see that we're aiming for the
long run. We're not just trying to rock
the project and like scam people because
that's our what we're building for. We
really want to be here for forever.
>> Totally. And I mean, you've been
building quietly, stealthfully since
I've known you for a year and a half,
going on two years now. So, um, really
looking forward to seeing the app hit
mainstream, hit hit alpha and beta
testers this summer.
>> Um, you mentioned the website where
people can go to to check out um, Mocha.
What's the best way that they can
connect with you on socials?
>> Um, once you download your Mocha
Messenger, you can search for my handle.
I'm going to make this public so that
you can actually find me and add me to
your mocha messenger with simer zy m if
you want to talk to me through the mocha
messenger you can do that you can also
send this code if you want and that will
add me as friend in the mocha messenger
that's how available I am to and I want
to hear from people but also in x you
you can find us with mocha like the the
handle of The X account is mocha.app
with letters like not the action dot but
mocha.app. That's our handle and you can
find us there and you can uh reach us
there also. And my personal account also
in X is same Monzmones and that's my
handle. So you can find me there.
Oh no, I changed it. It's Samr Mocha
now. So yeah, it's at Samer Mocha. You
can find me in X there if you want. I'm
always posting about Mocha or things
related to the crypto ecosystem. Um, I'm
going to start pushing more and and
publishing more things related to the
crypto world in crypto space and more
news because now the the actual
Mocha.app account is pushing more of the
Mocha things. But but I'm going to be
more active uh talking about other
things not Mocha related. So if you
think that it makes sense to follow me,
go and follow me there, too.
slap him with that follow. Well, Zay,
thank you so much for taking the time to
chat with us today. Um, it's been a
pleasure to see you at IRL events over
the past couple years and to catch up
whenever we've been able to and uh I was
happy to have you on the pod today. So,
thanks for the time.
>> I would love to show you whenever you
come back to Mexico. I would love to
show you the all the payment ecosystem
working in my phone and or my tablet and
actually you paying something, I'll give
it back to you. I promise,
but just to do the full process. And if
you want and you want to like record it
so that you can share it with your your
followers and your viewers, that would
be great. But if you only want to test
it because it's nice and you want to see
how it works and then share something in
X, I would really appreciate it. But I'm
pretty sure that you will like what we
build and you will find it really easy
to use.
>> Awesome. Well, I'll see you in DFA for
ETH Mexico this year.
>> For sure.
>> All right, man.
>> Thank you. Thank you, guys. Thank you,
everyone.
>> Have a great day. Cheers. Thank you so
much for tuning in to the Smart Economy
Podcast. To stay in the loop with all of
our latest episodes and insights, head
over to www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. Your feedback helps
us reach more listeners, bring even
better content your way. We would also
love to hear from you, so please drop a
comment in Spotify or YouTube to share
what topics you'd like us to cover or
who you'd like to hear as our next
guest. And if you or someone you know
would make for a great guest, please
consider reaching out. We're always on
the hunt for fresh voices or new
perspectives.
And for our NEO token holders out there,
please consider voting for NEO news
today as your council representative.
We've proudly been serving the NEO
ecosystem since 2017. We'll continue to
do so by putting portions of our council
rewards directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives. So, thank you one
more time for listening to the Smart
Economy podcast, and we can't wait to
catch up with you next time.